't" t
.TH sphz 1 "January 2022" UNIX "NagBody PROJECT"
.na
.nh   

.SH NAME
\fBsphz\fR - SPH/N-body simulation code.

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBsphz\fR [ \fIoptions\fR ]
.sp

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBsphz\fR - Simulates the evolution of a SPH/N-body system interacting with a potential
proportional to 1/r. The sph variant is sphcode_u.

.SH OPTIONS
The options have the structure
.sp
\fIoption_name\fR = <option_value>

.sp
except option \fB-help\fR.
.sp
Options and their possible values are:

.IP "\fB-help\fR" 12
By writting

.sp
sphz -help
.sp

you will get the list of all parameters and their default values.
An option may have an alias which is a short name of the option. If an option
has an alias in the list above it comes after its description
surrounded by brackets tagged with 'a:'. For example,

.sp
option_name=<option_value>	... Description


.IP "\fBeps\fR" 12
It is the smoothing force length. The interaction potential is proportional
to 1/Sqrt(r^2 + eps^2). In this way the singularity is avoided.

.IP "\fBtestnbody\fR" 12
It is the number of bodies to simulate.
.sp
Note: it is recommended that this number is given as power of 2.

.IP "\fBdtime\fR" 12
[a: dt] is the time step integration. It can be given as an integration
frequency just type in <dt1/dt2>.

.IP "\fBtstop\fR" 12
is the time to stop the simulation.

.IP "\fBtestseed\fR" 12
It is the Random number seed for the test run.

.IP "\fBin\fR" 12
you give here the name of the file with the N-body initial data.

.IP "\fBout\fR" 12
Output file patern for SPH frames.
The format follows as the ones used in C-language for integers ("%0#d").

.IP "\fBdtout\fR" 12
This is the time step for a snap output. It can be given as an output frequency, just
type in <dt1/dt2>.

.IP "\fBsave\fR" 12
you give here the name of a file where the run state will be saved.
If it is null no run
state will be saved.

.IP "\fBrestore\fR" 12
if it is not null a run will be restarted from the data stored in this file.

.IP "\fBoptions\fR" 12
you may give here various code behavior options.


.SH EXAMPLES
By executing the command,

.br
sphz testbody=4096 dtime=1/32 out=snap%03d

.br
will run the code, generating internally a Plummer sphere
sampled with 4096 particles and then evolving it up to t=2
with a time step of 1/32.
Snaps of the evolution will be saved as 
snap000, snap004, ..., snap064.

.SH SEE ALSO
gbsph(1), analysis_grav(1), nplot2d(1)

.SH
2022
.br
man page by M.A. Rodriguez-Meza
.br
